


Launching you first EC2 Instance

6193174
{toc}

h1. Launching your first EC2 Instance

Once you've signed up, you'll go to your AWS Console: [https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/home]

It'll be empty to start. You should have some tabs at the top of the screen. Click
the EC2 tab. If it's not available, or if it gives you a screen indicating you haven't
signed up for EC2 yet, go through the steps to sign up. Again, don't fret: you're
not signing away your mortgage or jeopardizing your family's supper.

Once signed up for EC2, you'll have some links in your AWS Console to "Launch Instance".
Clicking that will take you to the "Request Instances" Wizard.

h2. Request Instances Wizard


h3. 32bit or 64 bit, Linux or Windows?


Here's your first "real" decision, and you needn't labor over it. Essentially, you're
choosing a "base" platform on which to build your first ColdFusion AMI. This may seem
daunting at first, considering just how many AMIs are available. My advice is to not
sweat it. If you're familiar with Windows, use Windows. If you're familiar with Linux,
use linux. If all you know is "I want Windows", or "I want Linux", then choose one
of the Win or Linux AMIs that appears on the initial "Quick Start" screen. These are
generally either 32 or 64 bit.

*If you choose 64 bit, you're going to pay more.* The reason is that EC2 comes in
a variety of "sizes", from "small" to humongous. Obviously, 32 bit doesn't do humongous
because 32 bit can only address so much memory.

{tip}My advice: don't expect to make the best decision right away. You'll most likely
end up configuring a different kind of server eventually. For now, concentrate on
getting started, not getting it right{tip}

h3. Launch or Spot?

to get started, choose "Launch Instances" as opposed to Spot instances. Spot instances
are a way to save money, but they may add a bit of time onto your Getting Started
experience. If you're choosing Windows, it doesn't matter anyway because the price
is the same.

In the Instance Details screen, keep the defaults. Click through.

In the next screen, you'll be prompted for some key-value pairs. These are only meaningful
to you. For example, you get prompted with a "Name" key... give it a name that's meaningful
to you... "Windows Attempt #1", or "Linux Attempt #1", or something like that. Click
through.

h3. Key Pairs

On the next screen, you'll be prompted about Key Pairs. These are critical. Presumably
this is your first time through, so click "Create a new KeyPair" and give it a name.
Click to download the file. Again, keep it secret, keep it safe. This will be a ".pem"
file.

h3. Security Group

On the next screen you'll be prompted to create a Security Group for this new instance.
Think of a Security Group as a firewall. Once you assign a SG to an instance, that's
it. You live with it forever. This does NOT mean you can't change the configuration
of this group\! You can.

At the very least, to start, you'll want to *Add* "SSH" as a rule. No, Windows servers
don't have SSH, but you're going to install it, so add the rule now.

{tip}Give this Security Group a meaningful name, like "Win2k8" or some such thing.{tip}

h3. The Meter is now running

Once you launch an instance, the meter starts running. So don't launch an instance
and forget about it for 3 months. You're now being billed until you stop this instance.


h3. That's it\!

Congratulations. You've launched your first AWS EC2 instance. It's going to take a
while to spin up, perhaps 15 minutes or more, so go grab a beer.

6160408



Verstion: 2

Created By: marcesher

Created On: 2010-10-18 01:40:43.000

Last Update By: marcesher

Last Update On: 2010-10-18 01:52:26.000



